<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!--
  ~ Gridarta MMORPG map editor for Crossfire, Daimonin and similar games.
  ~ Copyright (C) 2000-2011 The Gridarta Developers.
  ~
  ~ This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  ~ it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  ~ the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
  ~ (at your option) any later version.
  ~
  ~ This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  ~ but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  ~ MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  ~ GNU General Public License for more details.
  ~
  ~ You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
  ~ with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
  ~ 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
  -->

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de">
<head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>
    <meta name="Date" content="$Date: 2013/05/29 19:04:31 $"/>
    <title>Gridarta: How to help</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Gridarta: How to help</h1>

<p>
    Helping is always welcome. There basically are two ways how you can
    help: </p>
<dl>
    <dt>Helping as a User</dt>
    <dd>
        Use Gridarta, test beta versions and provide feedback, e.g. bug reports
        and feature requests.
    </dd>
    <dt>Helping as a Developer</dt>
    <dd>
        Develop Gridarta using your Java skills.
    </dd>
</dl>
<h2>Helping as a User</h2>

<ul>
    <li>Requirement: You need to be a map maker for Atrinik, Crossfire or
        Daimonin.
    </li>
    <li>Subscribe to the
        <a href="http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/gridarta-news">gridarta-news</a>
        and
        <a href="https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/gridarta-user">gridarta-user</a>
        mailing lists.
    </li>
    <li>Report bugs to the
        <a href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=166996&amp;atid=841182">Gridarta
            SF Bug Tracker</a> or the <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis">Daimonin
            Mantis Bug Tracker</a>.
    </li>
    <li>Report feature requests to the
        <a href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=166996&amp;atid=841185">Gridarta
            SF Feature Request Tracker</a> or the
        <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis">Daimonin Mantis Bug Tracker</a>.
    </li>
    <li>Participate in the
        <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/index.php?name=PNphpBB2&amp;file=viewforum&amp;f=8">Daimonin
            <q>Map Editor &amp; Mapping</q> Forum</a>.
    </li>
    <li>Participate in the <a href="irc://irc.freenode.net:6667/%23gridarta">IRC
        Channel #gridarta at irc.freenode.net</a>.
    </li>
    <!-- TODO: Crossfire Forums etc. -->
</ul>
<h2>Helping as a Developer</h2>

<ul>
    <li>Requirement: You need a firm knowledge of Java.</li>
    <li>Subscribe to the
        <a href="http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/gridarta-commit">gridarta-commit</a>,
        <a href="http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/gridarta-devel">gridarta-devel</a>,
        <a href="http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/gridarta-news">gridarta-news</a>
        and
        <a href="https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/gridarta-user">gridarta-user</a>
        mailing lists.
    </li>
    <li>Report bugs to and solve bugs from the
        <a href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=166996&amp;atid=841182">Gridarta
            SF Bug Tracker</a> and the <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis">Daimonin
            Mantis Bug Tracker</a>.
    </li>
    <li>Report feature requests to and solve bugs from the
        <a href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=166996&amp;atid=841185">Gridarta
            SF Feature Request Tracker</a> from the
        <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis">Daimonin Mantis Bug Tracker</a>.
    </li>
    <li>Participate in the
        <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/index.php?name=PNphpBB2&amp;file=viewforum&amp;f=8">Daimonin
            <q>Map Editor &amp; Mapping</q> Forum</a>.
    </li>
    <li>Participate in the <a href="irc://irc.freenode.net:6667/%23gridarta">IRC
        Channel #gridarta at irc.freenode.net</a>.
    </li>
</ul>
<h3>Useful information for developers</h3>

<ul>
    <li>
        <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/modules.php?op=modload&amp;name=phpWiki&amp;file=index&amp;pagename=Guide%20to%20the%20Editor%20Code">Daimonin
            Wiki: Guide to the Editor Code</a> (not necessarily up to date)
    </li>
    <li><a href="http://gridarta.sourceforge.net/">Gridarta Homepage</a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/gridarta/">Gridarta SF Project
            Homepage</a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="http://gridarta.sourceforge.net/dev/">Gridarta Development
            Documentation</a> (part of Gridarta Homepage)
    </li>
</ul>
<h3>How to start</h3>

<ul>
    <li>Read the development documentation.</li>
    <li>Checkout your copy of the Gridarta source code from Subversion. (The
        development documentation contains instructions for that.)
    </li>
    <li>See what you can do, or alternatively ask for a concrete task to be
        assigned to you.
    </li>
    <li>Submit your first development steps as patches to the gridarta-devel
        list.
    </li>
</ul>
<p>
    Once the existing Gridarta team sees that you're doing a good job and would
    be a valuable member of the Gridarta development team, you should give them
    your SF account information and they will add you as a member to the
    Gridarta SF team and get a Mantis developer account. You will then also
    receive an Open Source License key for IntelliJ IDEA, the IDE used by the
    Gridarta developers. </p>

<h3>What you should know</h3>

<p>
    The <a href="irc://irc.freenode.net:6667/%23gridarta">IRC Channel #gridarta
    at irc.freenode.net</a> is the most important information exchange amongst
    gridarta developers, besides the issue trackers. Joining it regularly is
    very helpful. </p>

<p>
    Ragnor, Zergus and Cher have extremely high standards, regarding programming
    in general as well as Java programming in particular. So if your patch isn't
    accepted or gets highly modified, that's normal. </p>

<p>
    It's known that the project doesn't work well with NetBeans. We're working
    on this issue, but with low priority. It should work with Eclipse, though
    not tested. The IDEs used by the current development team are Emacs,
    IntelliJ IDEA and Vim. </p>
</body>
</html>
