<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!--
  ~ Gridarta MMORPG map editor for Crossfire, Daimonin and similar games.
  ~ Copyright (C) 2000-2011 The Gridarta Developers.
  ~
  ~ This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  ~ it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  ~ the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
  ~ (at your option) any later version.
  ~
  ~ This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  ~ but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  ~ MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  ~ GNU General Public License for more details.
  ~
  ~ You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
  ~ with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
  ~ 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
  -->

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Gridarta TODO list</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Gridarta TODO list</h1>

<p>
    Rules for developers: If you add something to this TODO list, also put your
    name aside the TODO entry. A name aside a TODO entry denotes the author of
    the TODO entry (not the developer the entry is assigned to). </p>

<p>
    Note: This list does not contain bugs. This list's purpose is serving as a
    single source of information on planned changes and features to the
    crossfire and daimonin developer teams. </p>

<h2>High Priority</h2>
<dl>
    <dt>Cher: Add Connection View</dt>
    <dd>
        The Connection view should display all connections and highlight a
        particular connection of a map.
        <br/>
        See also: <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=66">Daimonin
        Mantis #0000066: connection browser tab</a>
    </dd>
    <dt>Cher: Merge Validator</dt>
    <dd>
        Daimonin has a map validator that's also useful for crossfire.
    </dd>
    <dt>Cher: Match dialog editor</dt>
    <dd>
        Magic ears and simple NPCs have a simple regex based communication
        system. There should be an integrated editor for such messages.
        <br/>
        See also: <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=399">Daimonin
        Mantis #0000399: adding a book interface to the editor</a>
    </dd>
    <dt>Cher: Merge tool selector from daimonin to gridarta/crossfire</dt>
    <dd>
        Daimonin has a configurable tool selector. This tool selector allows
        assigning specific tools (currently available: delete, insert, select)
        to the three mouse buttons. This should be moved to gridarta to make it
        available for crossfire, too. Additionally this tool should be extended
        to have a context menu tool that's the default tool for the right mouse
        button. Also add a feature that resets the tool config to its initial
        state. TODO: discuss with the daimonin and crossfire communities if they
        want rmb for context menu per default in new versions of gridarta.
    </dd>
    <dt>Cher: Merge keyboard control from daimonin to gridarta/crossfire</dt>
    <dd>
        Daimonin has a keyboard control. The code already is mostly moved from
        daimonin to gridarta, but still only used by gridarta, not by crossfire.
        Think about keyboard shortcuts that are good for GUI users and that are
        good for vi users.
    </dd>
</dl>
<h2>Other</h2>
<dl>
    <dt>Improve inventory handling (Gridarta)</dt>
    <dd>
        <ul>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=405">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000405: Better indication of inventories in tile
                    list</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=412">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000412: Cut and paste in inventories</a>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </dd>
    <dt>Application Update</dt>
    <dd>
        <ul>
            <li>Move to Webstart</li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=420">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000420: Handle data files with auto updater</a>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </dd>
    <dt>Misc (Gridarta)</dt>
    <dd>
        <ul>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=401">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000401: Add some "Favorite" tool</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=372">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000372: Use of the word "arch"</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=377">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000377: Pickmap feature should be improved: tree
                    hierarchy / folders, grouping, categories, favorites</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=379">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000379: When following an exit to a non-existent
                    map, the editor should ask whether to create it</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=364">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000364: Set attributes of a selection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=256">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000256: Add preferences module for proxy
                    configuration</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=313">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000313: feature request: improving map editing
                    ergonomy</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=259">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000259: a small preview map for navigation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=260">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000260: a hotkey for reloading all graphics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=270">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000270: Show linked map tiles in edit window</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=74">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000074: Unislash: Add paint below feature</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=178">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000178: Allow setting the background color for
                    created images (screenshots)</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=70">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000070: Allow locking of tiles</a>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </dd>
    <dt>Misc (Daimonin)</dt>
    <dd>
        <ul>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=299">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000299: tileset information generation</a>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </dd>
    <dt>Misc (Crossfire)</dt>
    <dd>
        <ul>
            <li>
                <a href="http://www.daimonin.net/mantis/view.php?id=254">Daimonin
                    Mantis #0000254: Move along map tiles with keyboard</a>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </dd>
</dl>
</body>
</html>
